[Documentation] Account management (#969)
AleoHQ/aleo: docs/Guide/03_creating_accounts.md

---
id: accounts
title: Creating and Managing Aleo Accounts
sidebar_label: Creating and Managing Aleo Accounts
---
# Account Creation and Management

The first step in operating a zero-knowledge web application is creating a private key which serves as a cryptographic
identity for a user. From it, the user's address and several other useful cryptographic keys that comprise the user's
identity are derived.

> A new account may be created as displayed below:

Reviewer: Can we move this section under the description of the key types?

Author: done

```typescript
import { Account } from '@provablehq/sdk';

const account = new Account();
```

Alternatively, you may create an account with your own private key:
```typescript
import { Account } from '@provablehq/sdk';
import { PrivateKey } from './wasm';

// From a newly generated private key
const privateKey = new PrivateKey();
const account = new Account({ privateKey });

// From a private key derived from its string representation

> const privateKey2 = PrivateKey.fromString('somePrivateKey');

Reviewer: Can we change somePrivateKey to `APrivateKey1...` to keep consistent with the bech32 encoding?

```suggestion
const privateKey2 = PrivateKey.fromString('APrivateKey1...');
```

Author: done

// Individual keys can be then be accessed through the following methods
const privateKey = account.privateKey();
const viewKey = account.viewKey();
const computeKey = account.computeKey();
const address = account.address();
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD

>     A[Account] --> B(

Reviewer: Can you make the account a subgraph so that it encapsulates all the keys?

Author: done

        Private Key:
        An account's private and
        unique identity.
    )
    B --> C(
        Address:
        An account's unique
        public identifier.
    )
    B --> D(
        View Key:
        The key by which a
        user may decrypt
        data that they owns
        and prove ownership
        of data.
        
    )
    B --> E(
        Compute Key:
        Key used to trustlessly
        run applications and
        generate transactions on
        a user's behalf.
    )
```

Please note that all keys are considered sensitive information and should be stored securely.

## Creating an Account

A new account may be created as displayed below:
```typescript
import { Account } from '@provablehq/sdk';

const account = new Account();
```

Alternatively, you may create an account with your own private key:
```typescript
import { Account } from '@provablehq/sdk';
import { PrivateKey } from './wasm';

// From a newly generated private key
const privateKey = new PrivateKey();
const account = new Account({ privateKey });

// From a private key derived from its string representation

> const privateKey2 = PrivateKey.fromString('somePrivateKey');

Reviewer: Would we be able to change all of the `somePrivateKey` instances to `APrivateKey1...`

Author: done

// Individual keys can be then be accessed through the following methods
const privateKey = account.privateKey();
const viewKey = account.viewKey();
const computeKey = account.computeKey();
const address = account.address();
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    subgraph Account
        B(
            Private Key:
            An account's private and
            unique identity.
        )
        B --> C(
            Address:
            An account's unique
            public identifier.
        )
        B --> D(
            View Key:

>             The key by which a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            The key that allows
```

Author: done

>             user may decrypt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            an account to decrypt
```

Author: done

>             data that they owns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            private data it owns
```

Author: done

            and prove ownership
            of data.
            
        )
        B --> E(
            Compute Key:
            Key used to trustlessly
            run applications and
            generate transactions on

>             a user's behalf.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            an account's behalf.
```

Author: done

        )
    end
```

Please note that all keys are considered sensitive information and should be stored securely.

## Creating an Account

> A new account may be created as displayed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new account can be created as displayed below:
```

Author: done

```typescript
import { Account } from '@provablehq/sdk';

const account = new Account();
```

> Alternatively, you may create an account with your own private key:

Reviewer: Prefer 3rd party

```suggestion
Alternatively, an account can be created with an existing private key:
```

Author: done
